Well, welcome to this edition of Gabor,
which means courageous and confident,
even capable man.
Of course,
the most Gabor of all men who have
ever lived is David, God's beloved son,
his chosen one, our Messiah and King,
even our Savior.
I'm laughing because we've had quite the
episode here previously.
preceding this program with our favorite
fur faces, our dogs,
Kara being the youngest.
We then have Wookie as the male between
the two girls.
Here is indeed Kara.
And of course,
Asher as the senior lady of the group.
And so it has been provocative as we
now see if whether or not,
car is going to eat my plant.
Yeah.
No problem.
It's an easy show to do.
You can see behind me,
we do have a new addition here to
our set.
It will be framed and appropriately
positioned in a new location when it finds
its home,
but it's home right here for now.
This is a painting of the Carmel Coast.
It is the old,
old gnarled tree that sits on the bluffs
before the sea.
In the far western part of
The United States in Carmel,
one of my favorite places on the planet.
I think its natural beauty is
extraordinary.
It was painted by the co-host of the
evening show, the Family Hour program.
That individual, of course,
is a favorite to many.
He is Kirk,
and Kirk Miller is a phenomenal artist.
We have been friends now for twenty years,
and he painted that picture,
and I lost in an argument to him,
actually to his wife,
on where it should be hung.
I had encouraged that it be hung in
his studio so that when we do the
family hour, it would be behind him,
and I could
enjoy it sitting there framed behind him.
But his wife was quick to remind all
of us that
Kirk is exceedingly well hung all
throughout their house,
having painted many pictures, of course,
was the reason that she would say that.
And I lost the argument at that point.
I did not have a retort for that.
Now,
as we study this particular prophecy that
we are returning to here,
we'll find that my king, Dote,
he was much better at the comebacks than
I was.
So I'll have to learn from him going
forward.
I would appreciate it if you do.
Don't knock down the little tree here.
That's all right, Wookie.
I mean, Kara, you're doing fine.
It's not causing a problem at all.
Anyway,
that's why that wonderful picture is
there.
And it became really timely because in the
roles that Yahowah has cast for me,
I am more than anything a tree.
As we have learned,
and I will soon share,
we'll begin a new program here shortly,
maybe as soon as tomorrow,
on what actually transpired in the garden.
What you're going to discover is that the
tree of knowledge, it is the Eth Death,
is identical to the Choder.
So as both Dowd and the fourteenth Mishal
word picture, which is a proverb,
And in the eleventh chapter of Isaiah,
Yasha'yah,
there's a presentation of the Choder.
And as it turns out, the Choder,
everything associated with him,
directly identifies that individual with
the seven spirits of Yahowah with this
tree, the Ethel.
So it's appropriate to be shown as this
massive tree that clings to the sea
because the sea is a symbol of goy,
of Gentiles.
And in this particular role,
I'm going to call the observant foreigner,
the man from Edom.
And it all comes together in the story
of the garden.
So it's going to be a marvelous
presentation.
And there we see this gnarly old tree.
I might look ever so slightly more
weather-beaten than it.
But, you know,
the nice thing about weather-beaten trees
is that you know that, in fact,
they're here to stay.
They're deeply rooted.
They're exceedingly...
effective in maintaining their presence
through all manner of storms.
So here we are in this presentation with
a new addition to our
And there is Rich who is making it
all possible here for us,
as well as Miss Cuteness here.
Yes, you are adorable.
So we're returning to what had happened.
And this is a rather profoundly important
statement.
And it reads, therefore,
they err on the ark as a means
to behold the harvest of Yahowah.
dwelt and remained in the Beryth home of
Obed-Edom,
of the one doing the work by serving
from Edom at the Gitte, the wine press,
and it was there for three months.
While Yahowah blessed and commended
Obed-Edom,
the one doing the work while serving from
Edom,
in addition to all of his family and
every aspect
of his home and household.
Shamuel, listen to him.
Second Samuel six, eleven.
Oh,
there's so much here to unpack that is
germane to God's story.
First, the arc of the of the covenant,
which is what is being discussed here,
is probably the most interesting artifact
in
history of the world.
You're probably familiar with the Indiana
Jones and the search for the ark,
the quest for the ark.
It is actually right now in a cavern
that was carved out specifically for it so
that it could be kept out of the
clutches of those who had come to plunder
Israel,
beginning
with the Assyrians, the Babylonians,
the Greeks and the Romans.
And it has been protected by a malak
ever since it was taken off to this
place so that it would not be stolen.
And so that the original Ark of the
Covenant would be available as we make our
way through the events of the last days,
because it is required
for several purposes one is inside of the
ark are the original tablets of stone that
Yahowah etched with his own hand and they
are exceedingly relevant for our time and
and I'm going to explain the nature of
those in an upcoming program where we're
going to go right through
what God said on those tablets of stone,
because they are essential for our
understanding.
Most people are clueless to what they
actually reveal.
For example, they don't speak of a Lord,
they speak of Yahowah.
They don't speak of being controlled or of
laws or even of commandments,
but of God actually liberating us so that
we can live independent and full lives,
completely emancipated from religion and
politics.
And that the second of the three
statements,
is devoted to God telling us,
don't be religious.
Religion is the very thing that will
corrupt your children and that will kill
you.
And it's the reason why there are very
few, thank you, She,
was highly desirous of being with you.
All right,
so that there are very few people that
will benefit from the covenant and those
will be the most observant individuals.
And then it moves from there into a
statement that says there is no
forgiveness for negating
the importance of Yahowah's name, Yahowah.
So then on the second tablet,
we have some instructions as to how to
live our lives in this world,
but we'll go through that in an upcoming
program.
So number one,
The Ark of the Covenant has the Ten
Statements of Stone which are going to be
particularly important as we move forward
in time because Yahowah is going to lift
them above the two witnesses to negate the
claims that will be made by the corporeal
manifestation of ha-Satan as we move
forward to the conclusion of in the last
three and a half years of the time
of Israel's troubles.
The second reason that ark is important is
it is the ark of the covenant.
And so it symbolizes the very promises
that God has made to his people.
And the covenant is a family and God
is promising that when we come to
understand and accept
the five conditions of the covenant,
and we receive the benefits of the
covenant through our acknowledgement of
what Yahowah and Dowd have done to fulfill
the spring Miqraey, particularly Pesach,
Matzah, and Bikuwrym,
that we are to receive its benefits.
And so that's one of the things that
this Ark of the Covenant represents.
The next thing that it represents is
unknown to many, but it is Doge's throne.
It is literally that throne,
which Yahowah says in the Eighty-Ninth
Mizmowr will be
returning with him and will be as
brilliant as the sun.
And so the mercy seat,
the top of the Ark of the Covenant
is actually a seat,
and it serves as the very throne of
our returning king, who is David,
our Messiah, the chosen one of God,
the very firstborn son of God,
according to God, of course.
And lastly, that covenant,
this Ark of the Covenant,
has to be presented correctly on top of
Mount Moriah,
which is where it was left by Obed-Edom,
who is an essential player in this story.
The very person who was just introduced
here.
Obed-Edom was responsible for and will be
responsible for
the return of the Ark of the Covenant
to under the tent of the restoring witness
on Mount Moriah at the conclusion of the
time of Israel's troubles so that the
blood of the bull that is sacrificed on
Taruwah ten days later can be sprinkled
upon this Ark so that Israel
we can certify the restoration and the
reconciliation of the mortal remnant of
Yisrael in accordance with the Torah's
instructions on Yom Kippur.
That is the very instruction of Yahowah,
and it will be fulfilled exactly as it
was written.
And therefore,
this is why we find Obed-Edom
repositioning the Ark of Yahowah.
under the tent of the restoring witness on
the temple Mount and why God introduced
him to, to us in this story,
because up to this point,
if you recall the last two programs we
have done on this topic,
we found that a bull was pulling the
Ark of the Covenant across a threshing
floor,
and that that bull represented the payment
that would be made for the indebtedness of
the religiosity of the final remnant of
Yisrael.
When the bull was performing as Yahowah
intended,
we had a man who became a feminine
influencer that tried to interfere with
that story.
And God struck that person dead.
And what Dowd did in response is to
have a conniption fit.
He did not appreciate God upending this
whole procession where he had organized
some thirty thousand people from Israel to
be witnessing his return of the Ark of
the Covenant.
But when Dowd responded improperly to the
procession, Yahowah said, OK,
it's a time out.
For three months,
we're going to have a timeout.
And over that three months,
I think my son's going to figure it
out.
I think he's going to understand why the
bull was positioning it,
because it will be the bull on Taruwah
that will make the sacrifice and provide
the blood to anoint the mercy seat of
the Ark of the Covenant on Kipurym as
is promised.
prescribed in the Torah,
and that it will be Dowd who is
returning as the high priest to do so.
So God was presenting what was going to
happen prophetically.
A man turned into a female influencer got
in the way.
God says, no,
you're not going to do that.
I want to show you my response to
anyone who interferes with my plans.
That person was killed.
And as I said,
Dowd didn't understand it initially.
So when Dowd refused to proceed with a
way to bring the Ark into Jerusalem and
position it on the Temple Mount, God said,
well,
we're gonna have a little timeout and I'm
going to take the Ark and going to
have it in the home of Obed-Edom
Whom is going to be blessed as a
result of this?
Obed-Edom is, as we have learned,
the man from Edom.
That Yasha'yah,
Isaiah is very clear to announce saves
many in the end.
So therefore, the ark, the Aaron,
as a means to behold the harvest of
Yahowah,
dwelt and remained for a while in the
Bayeth, in the home,
of Obed-Edom,
the one doing the work by serving from
Edom.
Now, he is from ha-gati, the wine press,
as we learned because in Yasha'yah's
prophecy,
the man from Edom goes right into that
wine press, ha-gati,
with the great prophet.
And so that's why we have a tie-in
in this case.
Obed is the Hebrew word for work.
It's Obed is the verbal form,
but it's written identically to Obed.
Edom is one letter removed from Adam, man,
and from Adamah,
this bloody red man of the earth.
The letter that is added to Adam,
the man, humankind,
to form Edom is a wall.
It is also in Esau's name,
and this person is...
symbolic of Esau because Esau was the son
of Yitschaq, the firstborn son of Yitschaq,
who was cheated out of his inheritance by
his mother.
And as a result,
his inheritance is going to be restored
just as the family
of the covenant is restored that's the
reason why that name so the one letter
that is differentiated because uh Adam as
an uh as an Edom and Adam would
represent a observant individual the eye
recognizing the doorway, the dileth here,
to life is what is being conveyed in
this process.
And so with the
M, it is water that completes the name.
And the difference between Adam and Edom
is that there is a wall and it's
used to enlarge the tent of the restoring
witness and to secure that shelter that
will be where the Ark of the Covenant
the covenant will be placed,
but it also is something that is driven
into the earth.
And in so doing, it releases the waters,
the mem at the end of the name,
such that they are free to flow and
cleanse the mortal remnant of Yisrael.
So it's a lot in that particular name.
And the wine press just reminds us that
all of this is possible because of what
Dowd did on Passover,
where the blood of the lamb is smeared
on the doorway to life,
symbolic of the wine.
It would remain there three months.
Three months is signifying the three epics
of life.
human history out of the garden and
returning to the garden,
as well as the three days that represent
Pesach, Matzah, Bikuwrym,
as well as the Fall Miqraey, Taruwah,
Kipurym, and Sukkah.
The three epochs of humanity apart from
the garden are from year zero,
when we are ousted from the garden,
which God actually caused the fall,
as we have discussed,
to the time that the narrative exists to
explain how we're going to return through
the covenant is two thousand years or
fifty Yowbel.
And so we go from year Zarowa to
year nineteen sixty-eight BCE,
which is when Abraham and Yitschaq went up
Mount Moriah to serve as a dress
rehearsal, a harbinger, if you will,
for the fulfillment
of Passover where Yahowah said that he
would supply the lamb for tia bell
thereafter or two thousand years uh after
nineteen sixty eight b c e is thirty
three c e and in thirty three c
e is when Dowd as the son of
god served as the Passover lamb and
fulfilled chag matzah in year four
thousand yeah
Then for the Yowbel from that time or
another two thousand years from thirty
three C.E.
Your four thousand year is your six
thousand year,
which is twenty thirty three,
which is when the man from Edom will
serve as the Adam of Parah,
this bloody red man from the earth who
is so productive as a bull and will
offer his life for the benefit of the
remnant of Israel and to Israel.
serve as the one who,
as the bull again,
positions the Ark of the Covenant for its
proper place.
So there's a lot being conveyed here,
many, many layers to God's story.
So therefore, the Aaron, the Ark,
as a means to behold the harvest of
Yahowah, dwelt and remained in the Bayeth,
the home of Obed-Edom,
the one doing the work by serving from
Edom at the Geti, the winepress.
three months while Yahowah blessed and
commended.
Yahowah extolled the appropriateness of and
the usefulness of,
diminishing an aspect of himself and his
nature to meet with and to uplift.
Obed-Edom,
the one doing the work while serving from
Edom.
In addition to all of his family and
every aspect of his home and household,
All right,
so the three months could well be
symbolic, as I've said,
of the three thousand years,
actually just kind of a different
perspective,
the three thousand years between our
ouster from the garden and Dowd's life
here at this time with the Ark of
the Covenant as he's bringing it into
Jerusalem for the first time.
And then three thousand years from that
moment to Dowd returns to anoint the Ark
of the Covenant on Kippur.
And it could be that he is splitting
that time.
And that's why we have the reference to
three thousand.
In addition to the two other references
I've already shared with you.
So it is symbolic also of the three
and a half months, if you will,
between Shabuwah and Taruwah each year from
the time that we celebrate
to the time that we celebrate Taruwah,
which is the time of beginning of Israel's
troubles to the time that the two
witnesses arrive and the time of the
troubles finally end.
It's a same period of time.
So that is an interesting application of
the three and a half years.
And Elia and Yada will serve as the
witnesses for this amount of time.
three years uh fulfilling the promise that
yah has made regarding them and this will
also lead directly to the fulfillment of
chag Sukah and the three times each year
that we're asked to meet with Yahowah chag
matzah Shabuwah and chag Sukah
So lots of references here,
and I think all of them likely apply.
And as I have shared,
the three epics between our removal and
our reentry into the garden,
and even the thirty years that Yahowah will
serve as the bull prior to Dowd anointing
the Ark of the Covenant,
which is two thousand and one to twenty
thirty three,
less than two and a half years from
the harvest on Shabuwah to his return.
While all of these are likely true and
insightful, as I say,
there's lots of layers to God's story,
the most likely scenario is that Doge
tried and failed to remove the Ark during
Shabuwah,
only to return and be successful during
Taruwah.
And this is, I think...
symbolic of all of this,
that it was during Shabuwah that Doe tried
to
showcase the nature of the harvest that
was proclaimed by Shabuwah and the Ark of
the Aaron itself.
And to move it at that time,
it ended in disaster when Do did not
understand why God eliminated the man who
tried to take control of the process and
direct away from what the bull was doing.
And so three months later,
we're at Taruwah,
which is the appropriate time.
So by way of a hint,
should you want to be blessed and
commended by Yahowah, well,
do something that God values and
This was the case with Obed-Edom.
He was doing something God wanted done,
and so God responded in kind and treated
him exceedingly well in addition to his
whole family.
And of course,
Obed is spelled identically to the verb
abad, which means to work, to labor,
to serve.
This also means that Yahowah is committed
to working through people.
But more than this,
as I will prove and have already
suggested,
The reason that Yahowah caused the fall of
man back in the garden is that Adam
was a deadbeat.
He didn't work.
He was conceived first and foremost to
work with Yahowah in the garden,
which means that the garden could be made
better than it was if they collaborated.
It could be perfected.
Their home could be enhanced if they
collaborated and worked together.
But
there is no indication that Adam did
anything.
And all the clues that Yahowah provides
suggest that Adam was listless.
He felt entitled and he did not work
with Yahowah.
And so for man to be restored into
fellowship with God,
for man to earn God's trust such that
he can be relied upon if emancipated from
this planet and able to
explore the universe with Yahowah and move
out of three dimensions into four, five,
six and seven dimensions,
we're going to have to be industrious.
We're going to have to learn from God
and we're going to have to prove that
we're willing to work,
that we're willing to enhance our
situation through effort.
And so that is why the man is
named Obed Edom.
He was willing to work.
And that is essential to our return to
the garden.
You do not return to the garden unless
you are also able, willing to work,
to make a contribution to God's story and
to his family,
to show that you have the character and
the drive to contribute, to engage,
to act appropriately.
So that's a huge part of what all
of this story is telling us.
So even more revealing, as I have shared,
Edom is from Adam,
revealing that this is a ruddy red man
and that God is going to put him
to work to properly position the Ark of
the Covenant.
And that's just the beginning because Edom
constitutes the descendants of Esau,
Yaakov's twin brother,
who was disinherited and cheated out of
his birthright.
Symbolically, then,
a man from Edom is bringing the fractured
family of Yisrael back together in the
end.
God's a great storyteller.
Again, many layers to his story.
You can look at the mundane and the
simplistic and just rely on existing
translations and say, well,
that's a nice story.
Or you can actually get into it and
make the necessary connections to
understand all that God has conveyed,
whether they
narrative literally becomes alive,
where a historic portrait of something
that happened in time becomes exceedingly
relevant prophetically to our time and
what's going to endure,
what we're going to endure over the next
eight years.
So here we are.
We recognize that Dowd was inspired by
Yahowah's Ruach spirit,
such that he became the most prolific of
prophets.
And yet, even so, on this day,
he was wrong.
And what a marvelous insight into this
whole process,
because God's not expecting everything to
be perfect.
You know, again,
There would be no reason to work in
the Gan Eden if the Gan Eden was
perfect.
How could you improve perfect, right?
Our goal was to work collaboratively to
make it more perfect,
to move it in the direction of even
better than it was.
And the same thing is true with Dowd.
He became a prophet and was inspired by
the spirit of Yahowah to think things
through and to learn and to become better.
And by admitting that he was wrong
And learning from it and rising above it,
he also showed that he could grow,
that he was trustworthy,
that he could be relied upon,
that the next time that he stumbled,
he would be someone who God could rely
upon getting up and not wallowing in his
misery forever.
and learning from it and showing others
the best process to be productive and
useful and constructive in life.
And so while the information was all there
for Doe to make the right conclusion
regarding the Aaron and the Bakar,
the bull and the ark,
he just missed it.
At least he missed it initially.
And that is important because there are
also times when Moshe was wrong.
And according to Yahowah,
he was the greatest of the prophets.
This means that we don't have to be
perfect to speak for Yahowah,
even to serve as a prophet,
just willing to listen to Yahowah and to
learn from him and then change when we
know better.
We just have to get this false notion
of perfect out of our minds.
Even when God told Dowd and told Moshe,
inspired them to say certain words,
the communication of those words could
never be perfect.
The moment you go from the spoken word
to the written word,
you leave all of the nuances and the
tone and the whole cadence of the
presentation out of them because the
written word can't express any of that.
And yet by the written word,
you made the word more enduring and our
access to it more accurate today.
But it still doesn't convey the fullness
of it, which means it is incomplete.
And as incomplete,
it is imperfect in that regard.
And it's just exceedingly good.
But this, again...
Perfect is just too much of a stretch.
And then you have the issue of nothing
is ever conveyed in writing exactly as it
once was.
Scribes make errors.
The difference between, for example,
the Dead Sea Scrolls and the Masoretic
Texts is about fifteen percent.
You can go back and make many corrections
because we have the Dead Sea Scrolls,
but it's important to know that that is
the case.
So an important lesson is being taught
here.
So progress in this regard is brought to
us through the hopeful stem,
which when applied to Negad,
the counterpart delivering the message,
left nothing to chance.
So therefore the testimony reads,
then without any chance of denial,
or of ambiguity, the news,
the information regarding the counterpart
was reported such that it would be dealt
with and be compelling,
assuring that this information regarding
the witness was made conspicuous straight
away regarding the stand-in.
Neged, to the king, to dote.
to convey that Yahowah has blessed and has
commended, has uplifted, has supported,
has extolled, has Barak, the family,
the home, the household of Obed-Edom,
the one doing this work from Edom.
as well as everything associated with him,
all for the benefit of the relationship
and to show the way with regard to
and for the sake of even the purpose
associated with the very Ark of the
Almighty.
Therefore,
Dowd went by walking to bring up the
Aaron, the ark,
as a means to behold the harvest of
God from the home of Obed-Edom,
the one doing the work, serving from Edom,
to the city of Dowd with great pleasure,
joy, and delight.
Two Samuel, six, twelve.
But once again,
so much of this is both prior and
future history.
The first aspect of this that is just
so interesting is nagad,
when written in the hopeful, imperfect,
third person, masculine, singular.
The hopeful stem conveys all of those
nuances along with the imperfect
conjugation.
that this was all about God making sure
that there was no chance of ambiguity,
no chance of denial,
and that the news
So regarding this counterpart,
which is a part of the conveyance of
Nagad and Obed-Edom is Dowd's counterpart.
He is the lesser luminary as Dowd is
the greater luminary.
He is the king's herald.
So he is Dowd's counterpart.
He is the tree of knowledge while Dowd
is the tree of lives.
They are counterparts to one another.
And so it was all reported such that
Dowd would be in a position to deal
with it.
And God conveyed it in a compelling way,
assuring that this information regarding
the witness, Obed-Edom,
was made conspicuous straight away
regarding the stand-in,
such that this was revealed to King Dowd.
and all to convey that Yahowah had
commended, he had uplifted,
he had supported, he had extolled,
he had exclaimed the appropriateness and
the usefulness of the family and the home
and the household of Obed-Edom.
Obed-Edom is essential to God's story.
He is the man from Edom that saves
many in Yasha'yah, sixty-three.
He is one of the more important characters
in the prophetic timeline then and now and
he was then associated with Dowd he will
then be associated with Dowd going forward
again he is the one who ushers in
Dowd's arrival he's the one who assures
that the ark of the covenant is properly
presented for the king when he returns and
he is even going back further in time
as
The one doing the work from Edom and
therefore related to Esau is the one
reconciling the fractured family
relationship and restoring the
inheritance.
And the inheritance really of the
firstborn who according to God is also
Dowd.
So everything associated with him was all
for the benefit of the relationship and
with regard to the Ark of the Almighty.
Obed-Edom's work serves to show the way to
receive the benefits of the relationship
and to embrace the greatest joy in life.
And this is accomplished by way of the
Ark of the Covenant and its ultimate
positioning is
with Doe David upon the king's return as
he anoints it with the blood of the
bull to signify the reconciliation of the
mortal remnant of Yisrael.
And so now Dowd saying, all right,
all right, all right, I get it.
I understand exactly what's going on here
and why we moved from the bull to
Obed-Edom because the bull is Obed-Edom
and Obed-Edom is the bull,
their coterminous thoughts.
And it is the bull as Obed-Edom that
is going to be sacrificed on Taruwah
to enable Dowd as the high priest to
anoint the mercy seat of the Ark of
the Covenant and affirm the reconciliation
by way of the Torah.
And this is all to facilitate the ultimate
harvest on Taruwah.
And that is when this now is taking
place.
So we have all of this transpiring going
from the home of Obed-Edom to the home
of Dowd, the very city of Dowd.
And now our king, ah,
he is joyful and delighted.
So why would our king be joyful and
delighted?
God has facilitated the repositioning of
the Ark of the Covenant and our king
can enjoy the process.
This is very much just like the whole
concept of what God has in mind.
God wants to restore his relationship with
man once man has demonstrated that he is
willing to Obed to work to restore the
broken family.
Edom and that he understands the value of
the covenant and of the great sacrifice
that Dowd has accomplished to bring us
back together.
And when that transpires,
then these two men,
Obed-Edom as the Bakar and Dowd as the
very lamb and ram of God are going
to reunite in year two,
Six thousand yah,
twenty-thirty-three on Kipurym,
the day of reuniting,
the day of reconciliations.
And Dowd is excited about that,
and he is now able to relax,
to enjoy himself.
So the message regarding the witness was
revealed to Dowd in no uncertain terms,
all to correct his previous mistake.
Now aware of the role of the bull
designated now as Obed-Edom and the role
he himself as the Messiah and King would
play relocating the Ark in time for the
harvest,
Dowd learned his lesson and he was ready
to move on.
Thrilled that he had discovered something
both prophetic and of course profound.
Now, there is no sulking around.
There's no, whoa, it's me.
I'm so embarrassed.
I was wrong.
Oh, my God, will you accept my apology?
I want to repent, God.
No, none of that.
Dowd went from making a mistake as God
was conveying what he wanted to do,
the way he was going to accomplish it,
and Dowd being sulky and wrong to saying,
Here, Dowd,
here's the answer in no uncertain terms.
And Dowd said, oh,
now that you explained it, this is great.
Dowd didn't have to apologize.
Dowd didn't have to sulk.
There was no repentance.
Oh, woe is me for having been wrong.
He went from being wrong to being right
and was thrilled at having the opportunity
to go from being wrong to being right.
Now,
we have a whole group of people out
there that want to pretend that somebody
who is wrong about God on some detail
somewhere, like Dowd was here,
can't ever be right in terms of serving
as a prophet or a witness or a
key player in God's story.
As good God only would have perfect.
Well,
that's not that's exactly the opposite of
what's being conveyed here.
And rather than having been wrong on some
detail, proving that you can't be trusted,
it proves exactly the opposite when you
correct it.
It proves that you can be trusted.
It proves that you are able to learn.
It shows that you're able to grow,
that once you fall,
you can stand back up and be better
for it.
Demonstrating that you have character,
demonstrating that God can trust you.
It is the very currency of trust to
correct something that is wrong.
Then this notion that everything must be
perfect, as I say, you know,
lollipops and tulips.
I'm sorry, that's not the way God works.
It's not the way we grow.
It's not the way we accomplish anything in
life.
It's not the way we hone our character.
It's not the way we become interesting.
And Dowd is a living example of this
very thing.
So having the opportunity to respond
appropriately from Dowd's perspective and
from mine, it's a cause for celebration,
not lamenting.
It endeared doubt to God.
It enhanced the king's credibility,
particularly with their rational and
observant because of how rare it is that
someone in a prominent position can admit
a mistake in judgment and then correct the
record.
Ah, it's marvelous.
And that's what is being celebrated here.
And you ought not miss it because there's
a lot of naysayers out there that say
exactly the opposite.
They're just dunderheads.
They don't understand.
And that the primary condemnation of me
working with Yahowah is,
as I have just said, that I,
like Dowd, am learning on the job.
And that as such,
I'm willing to adapt conclusions as the
evidence direct,
just as was the case here.
That those who have come to trust what
I've discovered and shared ought to be
reinsured.
You ought to find this exceedingly
comforting.
Because I'm doing as Dowd and Moshe have
done before me.
This is Yahowah's standard operating
procedure,
and it's one that will continue to guide
our steps throughout eternity.
God wants to spend eternity with those who
can learn, who can grow, who,
if they make a mistake,
can admit they made a mistake,
they can get up and go again.
It shows that they're reliable.
It shows that they're...
Teachable.
It shows that they have character.
So while there is no one as beloved
as Dowd by God,
it's rather obvious that Yahowah holds
Obed-Edom very, very close to his heart.
There are not a lot of people where
God goes this far to say twice over
that he Barak, that he extolled,
that he esteemed.
And that's important because if you do
something the way God wants it done,
as thoroughly and as completely as you are
capable,
God takes notice and he shares credit.
Now,
is the whole introduction of Obed-Edom
scripted by God?
Absolutely.
Did God enable all of the benefits to
Obed-Edom to draw attention to his role?
Sure.
Is God miraculously going to bring
Obed-Edom back?
Yep.
Did God figure out a way to make
Obed-Edom and the bull one and the same?
Yes, he did.
Is he going to give Obed-Edom as the
Bukhar bull the very opportunity to clear
the temple mount so that the Islamic scars
are gone and so that he can reestablish
the tent of the restoring witness in its
proper place?
You betcha.
Is then Yahowah going to...
return the ark of the covenant so that
it sits within that tent of the restoring
witness such that everything that needs to
take place between Taruwah and Kipurym that
makes our return to the garden on Sukah
possible is he orchestrating all of that
with his malak doing the the work you
betcha so is Yahowah the one who is
responsible yes is he working through
people like
myself as Obed-Edom, this bull,
through Dowd as the ram,
and the man that's going to orchestrate
all of this, be the voice of God,
as all of this is taking place,
is Elia, the goat.
And as my wife says, you know,
there's something that you oughta know
about why God chose a lamb, a goat,
and a bull.
Throughout human history,
they've been the most valuable creatures
to man.
And they're going to be exceedingly
valuable,
have been and will be as we go
forward in God's story.
So Obed-Edom chose to do as God had
asked and God acclaimed him for it.
He was appreciative.
He was supportive.
The very purpose of the Ark of the
Covenant will be fulfilled as intended in
collaboration with the bull, the goat,
and the ram.
And it will transpire on Taruwah leading to
Kipurym.
And as a result,
our king will celebrate again in the city
bearing his name.
This is future history.
But let's not miss the fact that Yahowah
is commending Israel
everything and everyone associated with
the man who ultimately serves to reconcile
the family by his service to Dowd.
And indeed,
all of the men and women who have
devoted themselves to sharing this message
on Yahowah's behalf and for the benefit of
his people are blessed.
Not just now, but forever more.
This is a job that pays dividends.
I would strongly recommend it.
So in the end,
it is the work of the bloody red
man from Edom who is east as a
shore, who is observant.
and who will fulfill Yom Taruwah.
He's cast, I should say, as a shore,
as an observant individual.
And he is going to fulfill Yom Taruwah,
the day of the herald,
such that the mercy seat of the ark
is ready to be anointed by Dowd,
of course, with this bull's blood.
And it will take place during the sixth
Mow'ed, Yom Kipurym,
the day of reconciliations.
This is the sixth of seven steps which
take us from the world of men to
the very realm of God.
And it came to be that those who
were carrying the ark, the Aaron,
the ark to behold being harvested of
Yahowah,
had stepped six strides,
and then he offered a sacrifice ashore,
an observant bull.
We're going to bring together the concept
of the bakar and of the nakar,
the observant bull.
who had traveled a great distance to be
seen, to be beheld, to be regarded.
Even seven par, bulls, and al, rams.
There are seven Mow'ed Miqraey.
There are seven spirits of Yahowah.
And there is a bull and there is
a ram who are responsible for fulfilling
them by doing as Yahowah has requested.
This is Shamuel.
This is listen to him.
The second book bearing the judges and
prophets name, the sixth chapter.
It comes from the thirteenth statement.
So when it came to be that they
had taken six steps, carrying the ark,
bearing the those who would be harvested
of Yahowah then he offered the sacrifice of
the shore the observable of course that
had traveled with it because the bull and
obed eat them are the same individual and
because there would be seven steps overall
there were seven par and al rams
Now you will note with Obed-Edom managing
the transportation of the Aaron into
Jerusalem,
that he made sure that it was carried
as intended,
which would have been with eight men and
two long poles.
Further,
the one assisting the king knew when to
stop.
to recognize the ensuing contribution and
sacrifice of the sure observant bull.
Now, the reason that I say eight,
there are two poles and two ends of
each of those poles that sit through loops
on the left and right side.
Actually,
they go through the back and front of
the mercy seat in the Ark of the
Covenant.
And there are two men,
that will bear, carry those poles,
lift those poles forward and aft as they
are moving.
So there are two on each pole in
front, two on each pole in back.
Four plus four is eight.
The reason that's important,
and I bring it up to you,
is that on Shabuwah, Taruwah, then Kipurym,
we're specifically told that
of these eight individuals and the ongoing
role that these eight individuals play
beside the man named Obed-Edom, this bull,
in educating and preparing the mortal
remnant of Yisrael and of being central to
coordinating the harvest that takes place
on Shabuwah and on Taruwah.
So it's important to know that there's
synergy between these stories and that
there is a level of parallelism as well.
So we also know that the Shor,
the observant bull,
is in fact a blend between Bakar and
Nakar,
the observant foreigner and the observant
bull.
even realizing that there would be a par
and a al.
Par is the Hebrew word,
also another Hebrew word for bull.
It is shaped by the ah ending,
making it productive and fruitful.
And here we see it in conjunction with
the al, that would represent Dowd,
as he served as the Passover lamb.
as a result of having Obed-Edom be a
bloody red man,
working for him to reconcile the family
through the proper positioning of the
Aaron Ark for the harvest,
and as this bloody red man providing the
blood to anoint the mercy seat on
Kipurym, Dowd could now relax.
He could enjoy the proceedings.
This is another harbinger of things to
come.
It's exactly how Dowd is going to return
because the stage has been set for him.
He's returning as a king should with all
of the king's men doing exactly what
Yahowah would have done so that the world
is now perfect for him.
It's in fact because of what transpires on
Taruwah.
All enemies of Israel will be exterminated
and incinerated.
All traces of religion and of politics and
of militarism will be gone.
The entire earth will be restored to the
conditions of Eden.
Then we're going to have two chariots full
of individuals, one Goyim, one Yahuwdym.
that are going to be brought into
Jerusalem on Taruwah,
that will be purged of their religiosity
so that they're prepared to enter Eden,
or return to Eden on Sukkah,
and prior to that to receive Dowd as
he returns with Yahowah.
All of this is being prepared in advance
of the king's return,
as is the sacrifice of the Adam of
Parah on behalf of the adulterous woman,
because Dowd wants his bride back and she
will be prepared for the wedding.
And this is a huge part of the
story.
That's why Sukkah is called Sukkah.
There will be a wedding booth established.
for the king as he marries the most
beautiful and perfect woman in the world.
Upon his return,
all prepared for him by the men and
women serving in Yahowah's interests and in
the king's interest.
Now, speaking of such an occasion,
Dowd's return will transpire on Sunday,
OcTowbr second,
twenty thirty three at sundown,
six twenty two p.m.
in the city of Dowd,
and it will be the most celebrated event
in universal history.
Moreover,
what follows is yet another affirmation
that I was correct in picturing Dowd
dressing as the high priest on Yom Kippur
on the day of reconciliations to anoint
the Kippur at the mercy seat of the
Ark of the Covenant in observance of the
Torah's instructions, listen.
And Dowd danced joyously and rhythmically
with total effort
before the presence of Yahowah.
Dowd was wearing the special linen ephod,
the priestly garment.
Ephod is gold, blue, and purple, scarlet,
fine linen apparel for the high priest
with the onyx stones.
Shamuel listened to him, to Samuel, six,
fourteen.
Now there's just no way to overemphasize
the value of the foregoing statement.
It presents dough to the king,
celebrating his return to Jerusalem.
before the Aron, the Ark of the Covenant.
Following the sacrifice of the shore
observant bull on Taruwah,
the day of the herald,
supported by Obed-Edom,
the man serving him by reconciling the
relationship in context of the fulfillment
of the Miqrah
,
while he is dressed in the ephod,
the princely apparel.
If connecting clues to solve the puzzle
appeals to you,
then you're smiling from ear to ear
because Yahowah has opened the box and set
all the important pieces out right before
you face up and said, oh,
by the way,
this is how they fit together.
Now you know exactly what's going to
happen, where, when, by whom, and why.
Isn't that marvelous?
And yet I dare say we're the first
to actually share all these things with
you, even though all of these clues,
all the pieces to this puzzle have been
available for three thousand years.
Now, admittedly.
It took me twenty four years to figure
all this out and to go from ignorant,
probably a decent term to yada to knowing
and then to be in.
Understanding.
So to appreciate where we have come,
this is an important part of this journey.
This serves to validate what has become
the central thread of Yada Yahowah.
In arguably the most accurate presentation
and important commentary on God's
testimony pursuant to what has happened
and will occur
that has ever been written.
Knowing the succession of events and
particularly the role Obed-Edom,
the bloody red man working to reconcile
the family as the shore the observant bull
will play on Yom Taruwah,
the day of the herald,
to facilitate the king's triumphant
arrival before the remnant of Yisrael
the son of God reveals.
So Dowd and the entire Beryth Yisrael,
entire household of those engaging and
enduring with God, ascended with Aaron,
the ark to behold being harvested of
Yahowah on Taruwah,
Blasting the message of the herald with
the cold voice of the shofar trumpet.
To Samuel six, fifteen.
Back a while ago when I made the
note that there were lots of ways to
look at the three months that the Ark
of the Covenant was in the home of
Obed-Edom.
I said,
I think that all of the various layers
that I have shared with you are true,
but one thing I am assured of is
that Doe tried to bring the Ark of
the Covenant into Jerusalem on the
upcoming harvest, Shabuwah.
And that, you know,
he got sidetracked with the man
interfering with the work of the bull.
And the reason that...
that ark didn't resume its journey the
next day with Obed-Edom is because the
next occasion was Taruwah.
And here we find that that conclusion was
correct.
That now Dowd and the entire family and
household of Yisrael was ascending up to
Jerusalem,
to the city of Dowd and to the
very Temple Mount of Moriah.
with the ark to behold the harvest of
Yahowah on Taruwah.
They were blasting the message of the
herald,
doing so with the very cold voice of
the shofar trumpet, the voice of Yahowah,
and the shofar trumpet of Yahowah,
and the
Message of Obed-Edom,
of the shore observant bull,
of the very meaning of Taruwah and what
will take place on this date,
they're all intertwined.
God tells his story with metaphors and
symbols that all coalesce to form this
picture for your benefit.
It is a marvelous story.
And we're going to conclude this episode
of Gabor because it's going to get even
more interesting from here.
But what a marvelous portrait God has
painted.
I hope you see yourselves in it.
I hope you're encouraged and enlightened
by it because this is future history.
Thank you for listening.